gdrive-cleanup/README.md, before:

# Google Drive Cleanup Script:

This is a short script to perform rolling cleanups for archives generated by the [Google Drive Backup Script][1].

Since backup archives are named according to their creation date, this script simply looks for folders matching a date string generated from a supplied time interval. If a match is found, the folder is deleted from Google Drive.

#### Settings:

- GDBASE: The base folder where you'll store your backups
- GDCONF: The folder in which server configs are stored
- GDWEB: The folder in which web files and database dumps are stored
- CINT: The time interval at which configs rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- WINT: The time interval at which web rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>

<a name="note"></a>* Example: specifying `WINT='10 days'` means the script will look for web archives from 10 days ago -- which, if performed daily, should leave you with 9-10 web backups depending on the execution time of this script relative to the backup script.

#### Cron/Logging:

Just like the backup script, you can use cron to log this script's output. Here's what I use in my crontab:

`30  2   *   *   *   /path/to/gdrive-cleanup.sh > /path/to/gdrive-cleanup-$(date +\%F-\%H-\%M-\%S).log 2>&1`

[1]: ../gdrive-backup/

Commit message:

Added flag to cleanup log files

gdrive-cleanup/README.md, after:

# Google Drive Cleanup Script:

This is a short script to perform rolling cleanups for archives generated by the [Google Drive Backup Script][1].

Since backup archives are named according to their creation date, this script simply looks for folders matching a date string generated from a supplied time interval. If a match is found, the folder is deleted from Google Drive.

#### Settings:

- GDBASE: The base folder where you'll store your backups
- GDCONF: The folder in which server configs are stored
- GDWEB: The folder in which web files and database dumps are stored
- CINT: The time interval at which configs rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- WINT: The time interval at which web rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- CLEANLOGS: This boolean tells the script whether or not to clean up old log files
- LOGSDIR: The directory in which log files are stored

<a name="note"></a>* Example: specifying `WINT='10 days'` means the script will look for web archives from 10 days ago -- which, if performed daily, should leave you with 9-10 web backups depending on the execution time of this script relative to the backup script.

#### Cron/Logging:

Just like the backup script, you can use cron to log this script's output. Here's what I use in my crontab:

`30  2   *   *   *   /path/to/gdrive-cleanup.sh > /path/to/gdrive-cleanup-$(date +\%F-\%H-\%M-\%S).log 2>&1`

[1]: ../gdrive-backup/
