rclone-backup/README.md, before:

# RClone Backup/Cleanup Scripts

## rclone-backup.sh

The `rclone-backup.sh` script is very similar to its predecessor, `gdrive-backup.sh`, except it uses the [RClone][1] Google Drive client to back up files/directories onto Google Drive.

Installing RClone is easy and can be done by running the command: `curl https://rclone.org/install.sh | sudo bash`.

Once installed, run `rclone config` to configure RClone and generate your OAuth token. Check out [this link][2] for more information.

**Note:** the `root_folder_id` option is very handy here, as it quite simplifies the backup structure. For my use case, setting this option to my Google Drive backup folder ID made it so that I can conveniently use `Conf` and `Web` in the Backup/Cleanup scripts instead of using something akin to `Backup/Server/Conf` and `Backup/Server/Web`, respectively. 

After configuring RClone, run `rclone about <remote>:` to make sure everything is working properly. If you see your Google Drive summary, you're now ready to use the RClone Backup/Cleanup scripts.

*A small caveat: this script is intended to run in* `bash` *not* `sh` *in order for the array expansion to work properly. Don't change the* `#!/bin/bash` *on the first line into* `#!/bin/sh` *-- unless, I suppose, you really know what you're doing (in which case, tell me what you did and why).*

#### Schemas:

Similar to `gdrive-backup.sh`, I put 2 different backup schemas in one script so that I can keep my crontab short and concise. If that's not ideal, the script can be easily split off to accommodate multiple backup schemas.

My web and database files are backed up every day, while my server configs are backed up once every month. This is accomplished by enclosing the server configs portion of the script in a simple conditional (`if [[ "$(date +%d)" == "$CONFBACKUPDAY" ]]`) that only runs if it's the preset day of the month.

#### Settings:

- GDCONFDIR: The Google Drive folder in which server configs are stored
- GDWEBDIR: The Google Drive folder in which web files and database dumps are stored
- CONFBACKUPDAY: The day of the month you want the script to backup server configs<sup>[1](#1)</sup>
- CONFDIRS: The server config directories you want to backup, one directory per line
- WEBDIRS: The server web directories you want to back up, one directory per line
- MYSQLDBS: The MySQL databases you want to dump, one database per line
- MYSQLUN: The MySQL username you want mysqldump to use
- MYSQLPW: The MySQL password you want mysqldump to use<sup>[2](#2)</sup>

Notes:
1. <a name="1"></a>Example: if you want to back up your server configs on the 5th of every month, use `CONFBACKUPDAY='05'`. Don't forget the leading zero.
2. <a name="2"></a>You might not want to leave your MySQL password written in plain text inside this script. An alternative would be to set it in your `my.cnf` config file. See [here][3] for some more information.

#### Cron/Logging:

Here's more or less what I use in my crontab to automate execution and logging for the RClone Backup script:

`30	1	*	*	*	/path/to/rclone-backup.sh > /path/to/logs/rclone-backup-$(date +\%F-\%H-\%M-\%S).log 2>&1`

Now the script runs every morning at 1:30AM, and logs the output to a unique (timedated) file.

## rclone-cleanup.sh

This script performs rolling cleanups of the Google Drive archives generated by the RClone Backup script. It uses RClone's `--min-age` flag to find archives matching a provided time interval, then purges those archives completely, skipping Trash, using the `--drive-use-trash=false` flag.

#### Settings:

- GDCONFDIR: The Google Drive folder in which server configs are stored
- GDCONFDELINT: The time interval at which configs rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- GDWEBDIR: The Google Drive folder in which web backups and database dumps are stored
- GDWEBDELINT: The time interval at which web rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- CLEANLOGS: This boolean tells the script whether or not to clean up old log files
- LOGSDIR: The server directory in which log files are stored
- LOGSDELINT: The time interval at which log rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>

<a name="note"></a>* Keep in mind that archive cleanups use RClone's suffix format to establish time intervals, whereas log cleanups use Linux's date format.

#### Cron/Logging:

Here's more or less what I use in my crontab to automate execution and logging for the RClone Cleanup script:

`30	2	*	*	*	/path/to/rclone-cleanup.sh > /path/to/logs/rclone-cleanup-$(date +\%F-\%H-\%M-\%S).log 2>&1`

[1]: https://github.com/ncw/rclone
[2]: https://rclone.org/drive/
[3]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/9293090

Commit message:

RClone remote was hardcoded, now it’s a variable

rclone-backup/README.md, after:

# RClone Backup/Cleanup Scripts

## rclone-backup.sh

The `rclone-backup.sh` script is very similar to its predecessor, `gdrive-backup.sh`, except it uses the [RClone][1] Google Drive client to back up files/directories onto Google Drive.

Installing RClone is easy and can be done by running the command: `curl https://rclone.org/install.sh | sudo bash`.

Once installed, run `rclone config` to configure RClone and generate your OAuth token. Check out [this link][2] for more information.

**Note:** the `root_folder_id` option is very handy here, as it quite simplifies the backup structure. For my use case, setting this option to my Google Drive backup folder ID made it so that I can conveniently use `Conf` and `Web` in the Backup/Cleanup scripts instead of using something akin to `Backup/Server/Conf` and `Backup/Server/Web`, respectively. 

After configuring RClone, run `rclone about <remote>:` to make sure everything is working properly. If you see your Google Drive summary, you're now ready to use the RClone Backup/Cleanup scripts.

*A small caveat: this script is intended to run in* `bash` *not* `sh` *in order for the array expansion to work properly. Don't change the* `#!/bin/bash` *on the first line into* `#!/bin/sh` *-- unless, I suppose, you really know what you're doing (in which case, tell me what you did and why).*

#### Schemas:

Similar to `gdrive-backup.sh`, I put 2 different backup schemas in one script so that I can keep my crontab short and concise. If that's not ideal, the script can be easily split off to accommodate multiple backup schemas.

My web and database files are backed up every day, while my server configs are backed up once every month. This is accomplished by enclosing the server configs portion of the script in a simple conditional (`if [[ "$(date +%d)" == "$CONFBACKUPDAY" ]]`) that only runs if it's the preset day of the month.

#### Settings:

- GDRCLONEREMOTE: The remote name RClone should use to access Google Drive
- GDCONFDIR: The Google Drive folder in which server configs are stored
- GDWEBDIR: The Google Drive folder in which web files and database dumps are stored
- CONFBACKUPDAY: The day of the month you want the script to backup server configs<sup>[1](#1)</sup>
- CONFDIRS: The server config directories you want to backup, one directory per line
- WEBDIRS: The server web directories you want to back up, one directory per line
- MYSQLDBS: The MySQL databases you want to dump, one database per line
- MYSQLUN: The MySQL username you want mysqldump to use
- MYSQLPW: The MySQL password you want mysqldump to use<sup>[2](#2)</sup>

Notes:
1. <a name="1"></a>Example: if you want to back up your server configs on the 5th of every month, use `CONFBACKUPDAY='05'`. Don't forget the leading zero.
2. <a name="2"></a>You might not want to leave your MySQL password written in plain text inside this script. An alternative would be to set it in your `my.cnf` config file. See [here][3] for some more information.

#### Cron/Logging:

Here's more or less what I use in my crontab to automate execution and logging for the RClone Backup script:

`30	1	*	*	*	/path/to/rclone-backup.sh > /path/to/logs/rclone-backup-$(date +\%F-\%H-\%M-\%S).log 2>&1`

Now the script runs every morning at 1:30AM, and logs the output to a unique (timedated) file.

## rclone-cleanup.sh

This script performs rolling cleanups of the Google Drive archives generated by the RClone Backup script. It uses RClone's `--min-age` flag to find archives matching a provided time interval, then purges those archives completely, skipping Trash, using the `--drive-use-trash=false` flag.

#### Settings:

- GDRCLONEREMOTE: The remote name RClone should use to access Google Drive
- GDCONFDIR: The Google Drive folder in which server configs are stored
- GDCONFDELINT: The time interval at which configs rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- GDWEBDIR: The Google Drive folder in which web backups and database dumps are stored
- GDWEBDELINT: The time interval at which web rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>
- CLEANLOGS: This boolean tells the script whether or not to clean up old log files
- LOGSDIR: The server directory in which log files are stored
- LOGSDELINT: The time interval at which log rolling cleanups occur<sup>[*](#note)</sup>

<a name="note"></a>* Keep in mind that archive cleanups use RClone's suffix format to establish time intervals, whereas log cleanups use Linux's date format.

#### Cron/Logging:

Here's more or less what I use in my crontab to automate execution and logging for the RClone Cleanup script:

`30	2	*	*	*	/path/to/rclone-cleanup.sh > /path/to/logs/rclone-cleanup-$(date +\%F-\%H-\%M-\%S).log 2>&1`

[1]: https://github.com/ncw/rclone
[2]: https://rclone.org/drive/
[3]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/9293090
